In the previous lecture we have been talking about the actual architecture of recurrent now rail networks.
So we have come to the conclusion that we can honor roll a given we current Now roll and that work in
time in order to end up with this given architecture.
So what's very important that it is a way to well use are shared across every single layer.
And that's why we have to deal with a vanishing or exploding gradient problem.
You may pose the question that OK we have been talking about these problems but basically recurrent
now and that of course can be very very deep.
So in one of the previous chapter as we have been talking about classifying the Ivey's data that we
need deep our own networks.
So in this case we had several hidden layers.
But basically we just had two or three players.
So it means that we didn't have to bother about vanishing gradient problem.
A solution is to use the real you activation function instead of the sigmoid or Tanah activation function
but basically it was working quite fine here with recurrence.
Now we're on that works.
We can have several hundred or up to sever thousand hidden layers hands.
We have to deal with when itching or exploding gradients problem.
So when dealing with back propagation we have to calculate the gradient.
So for every single output we can associate a given last function and the last function.
Partial derivatives with respect to the double you educates are going to yield the gradients.
Why do we need the gradient.
Because this is how we change the given educates you ring back propagation.
So if we calculate the derivative of the last function with respect to the double you actuates we will
end up with the sum.
We just have to sum up every single partial derivative as far as the given layers are concerned.
Basically we just have to apply the chain rule several times.
So this partial derivative out t with respect to double use of R is going to be the sum of the given
educates and of course we have to multiply with the diagonal of the activation functions derivative.
But anyways this is not that important.
What's important that we have to multiply the educates in every single layer.
And if we multiply the weight several times and we apply a given x value which is smaller than one several
times then the result will get smaller and smaller.
So if we have several layers then using that propagation we have to apply the given edge weights but
these values are smaller than the one Dan.
The gradient is going to be smaller and smaller.
This is the way Nisshin gradient problem that after making several back propagation stop the gradient
will be so small that we are not going to make any changes in the previously years.
So the gradient is going to be smaller and smaller.
And this is why back propagation is not going to work that well.
Okay.
By the way we use back propagation through time which is the same as back propagation but these gradients
or error or seiners will also flow backward from future time staps to current time stops.
So h D-plus to then we back propagate to H D plus 1 then we back propagate again into h t.
So this is why as you can see it flows backward from future time staps to current time stops.
So this is why we call this kind of back propagation back propagation through time.
But it is the same as the standard back propagation procedure.
So this is the vanishing gradient problem that the gradients are going to be smaller and smaller.
And this is why we are not able to train our and our own network because within the layers further and
further away from the actual layer the gradients will be so small that we are not going to RBD the edge
weight if we do not Aberdare the educates.
Of course there is no training procedure at all.
So this is the way Nisshin gradient problem where the gradients are going to be smaller and smaller.
Theres the exploding gradient problem.
If we move to imply a value that is greater than one several times then the results will get bigger
and bigger.
So what does it mean that the gradient is going to be bigger and bigger and we are going to make huge
changes in later as far away from the actual one.
And of course we don't want to do this or we just want to add the day to the awaits just the right proportion.
So no matter that we are dealing with the vanishing ingredients problem or exploding gradient problem
we have to solve this issue.
OK so it is a problem when dealing with recurrent now Real Networks because these networks are usually
very very deep.
So there are thousands of hidden layers.
So somehow we have to deal with this issue.
And you may pose the question that why when is she in gradient is a problem because gradients become
too small or too large which makes the model difficult to cope with longer range dependences if the
gradient is going to be very small.
We are not going to update the educate further away from the actual layer.
This is what we want to avoid.
We would like to make sure that our recurrent our own network is able to deal with items quite far away
from each other.
This is why a well-trained current and our network is able to predict that a Hungarian guy speaks fluent
Hungarian.
So we would like to deal with items that are very very far away from each other and the gradient is
very very small.
We are not going to date weights in a given layer that's far away from the actual one.
So this is why we have to deal with 20 shin gradient problem ok for recurrence now.
Real Networks local optima are a much more significant problem than we'd feedforward our own networks.
This is the last function.
And as you can see there are lots of lots of local optima which makes the optimization problem even
harder.
So the error or function suffers is quite complex these complex surfaces have several local optima and
we want to find the global one.
For example we can use matter how eristic approaches instead of gradient or still has degraded descent.
OK I don't want to repeat myself over and over again but this is why we have to deal with optimisation
algorithms before starting the concrete implementation of our networks.
There are lots of lots of matter how artistic optimization methods such as simulated annealing genetic
algorithms or porticos from optimization that can be used to be very very useful in these kinds of situations.
OK so when there are lots of lots of local optima and we are after the global one then matter how eristic
approaches are working extremely fine genetic algorithms simulated annealing or something like this.
OK.
So the final question is how to deal with all vanishing or exploding gradients problem dealing with
exploding gradients problem is quite easy.
We can use truncated back propagation Srey time algorithm which means that we use simple back propagation
but we only do that propagations K time stops.
So we are not going to visit every single hidden layer in a previous time stops.
We are just going to visit k he didn't.
OK.
Or we can adjust the learning rate.
We are enmasse Propp which is an adaptive algorithm we normalize the gradients and using moving average
over the root mean squared gradient in order to add the date and adjust the learning rate accordingly.
So this is how we can deal with exploding gradients problem.
It is much more easier to detect this problem and it is much more easier to deal with this problem when
issuing gradient problem is a bit more complex.
It is harder to detect and it is harder to cope with this problem.
We can initialize the weights properly with Zawia initialization.
We can use proper activation functions such as that rectified linear unit activation function instead
of the sigmoid one or we can use other are heat factors such as Al SDM.
So long short term memory architecture or gated recurrent unit architecture.
This is what we are going to discuss in the coming lectures and why is it important to consider these
architectures because we would like to avoid any sheen gradients problem.
Thanks for watching.